# Even Fibonacci Numbers
### Problem 2

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:

1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...

By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.

Source: https://projecteuler.net/problem=2

## Solution 1

Once again, python allows us to use big integers without worrying about having to handle integer overflow, so it remains my language of choice for this problem.

This solution is a fairly straight-forward dynamic apporach using the definition of the fibonacci sequnce and no fancy tricks.
The loop checks if the current term is even, and if it is, it adds the current term to the running sum of even terms. 
Then the loop finds the next term of the sequnce by adding the current and the previous term two terms. 
The loop terminates when the current term is greater than or equal to 4 million, and this happens before the current term is added to the running sum.

## Considerations for future refinement

I've spent a lot of time looking at efficient ways to calculate nth terms of fibonacci for large n's. Unfortunately, typically those effecient methods are able to skip over a lot of terms in their calculations, which is what makes them effecient. Because we need to add up several terms, we need to not skip over the ones we need along the way.   

Something that may be of importance is a pattern of the fibonacci sequence. Because the sequence begins with an odd number, 
and because even numbers as a result of addition are produced by adding two evens or two odds, never an even and an odd, 
it can be proved by induction that the fibonacci sequence follows an "odd, odd, even" pattern. 
Knowing this, we at least know we don't have to check every single number to see if it is even. 
We know where all of the evens are.
